All right, let's get going with Keystone.
Now, there's one thing I need to tell you
in that we're gonna be doing the backend in TypeScript.
So, don't get scared
I initially was gonna do it all in just JavaScript
because especially for the frontend,
there's a little bit more of a hurdle to get up
and running with it
and you have to know a lot about TypeScript
and things like that
and while I'm a big TypeScript fan,
I didn't necessarily think it was worth it for the frontend
just 'cause I wanted everybody to do it.
But, I was looking at doing the backend in TypeScript
because it's really not that much different
than just regular .js files
and the sort of IntelliSense
and the code highlighting
or the code hinting that we get
is going to be well worth our time
in getting set up with it.
So, when we're working on the backend,
all of our files are going to end in a .ts file
and then anytime we hit something weird,
that is not like,
let's look at this.
Like this is just JavaScript.
Look at it,
and the everything in here is just JavaScript.
There are going to be a few little spots in it
where we have to type something
and if you've never done any TypeScript before
don't worry, I'm gonna show you.
Okay, we add this little piece of code
and here's the benefit that we get from it.
So, really just an extra, maybe 3% on doing,
on the project to get TypeScript,
and you're gonna get
you're gonna see like,
oh man, this is awesome,
this is so worth worth doing.
I understand why people like TypeScript so much.
So, I plan on having an entire TypeScript course come out
and getting into the nitty gritty of it
but quite honestly, Keystone does all of the
hard TypeScript stuff.
We just simply have to use it in .ts files
and all of that stuff comes along for free
which is pretty slick.
So, let's get up
and running with Keystone
and you're gonna have to like watch.
'Cause I do this myself is
whenever we create new files in the backend,
make sure you use .ts
and not .js.
So we'll go here, right click new file
and we're gonna call it keystone.ts
see I typed the j there,
ts gotta catch myself I'm sure I'm gonna do that.
If I do it more than five times in this course,
I'll do something,
I'll jump in the lake
or something like that.
Okay, so that is what we have so far.
First thing we need to do
is we need to import .env/config
and why that's important
is because it's going to take all of the variables
that we've put into our .env file,
and these are called environmental variables.
These are variables that are set on our local machine
we're gonna also set them again
when we deploy it to an actual server,
but that's going to make those variables in this file
available to us inside of this keystone.js file.
Next up, what we need to do is
define what our database URL is.
So say const databaseURL =
and then, how do we get it from this .env?
Well we say process.env. what did we call it?
I like to just copy paste it.
So you don't accidentally goof anything up
then we'll say
or, and this is just a nice thing to do
in case you're sending your code over to somebody else
who has local install of it.
Then say mongodb://localhost/keystone-sick-fits-tutorial,
and that will just fall back to local hosts.
If case you don't have a database you are all running there.
Okay, next thing we need to do is
to create some session config.
So we are going to be logging in to the Keystone backend
in order to do that,
in order to authenticate the users
in the frontend of our react application
we are gonna use something called sessions.
So what we do here is we say
const sessionConfig = curly brackets
and we say, maxAge: this is gonna be
how long does the cookie?
So it's gonna set a cookie in our browser
that has this thing called JWT.
We'll talk about that a little bit more in the future
but basically how long does the user state signed in?
And the answer to that is there's 60 seconds in a minute
60 minutes in an hour, 24 hours in a day
and 30 days, this is the one you can change for,
how long, maybe I'm gonna do more,
360 days, 'cause I hate when,
like how long should they stay signed in?
Okay, that's good.
Then the other thing we do is secret,
so this is when you're generating the cookie
you need a secret
and that should not be available to anybody else.
Otherwise they'd be able to reverse engineer it.
So we, again, we've put a secret right here, cookie secret.
So say process.env.COOKIE_SECRET.
Good, next thing we need to do
is to import some methods from Keystone itself.
So let's go up to the top here
and we are going to import two things
import config, createSchema}
and that is going to go,
Ooh, look at that, I just typed it in.
It did it for us, so I'm gonna use that one.
Here we go up here
and is good.
So we have import config, createSchema } from
and this might be a little bit different @keystone-next,
this might just be @keystone
and I will cut into the video right now when that changes
or another way you can tell if that has changed.
If you look at the package, "Jason"
if you take a look here, you see,
these are all @keystone,
keystone-next,
and they will eventually change
to either at@keystone
or @keystonejs.
Again, you can tell what they are
by looking at the dependencies in your package Jason.
I will also cut into the video
and tell you
that's just because this is currently in development mode
while I'm recording this
but eventually it's going to be published
on their main NPM branch, so no problem there.
Okay, so import config, creatSchema}
now we'll go down here
and we will export default config
and inside of that config
we have a whole lot of boiler plate.
So, bear with us on this one.
I'll explain it as we go.
It's not the most exciting stuff,
but in the next video we'll actually get into creating users
and logging in
and creating data types.
So, in this config
we have a couple properties, actually, it's an object.
So let's do an object there,
and we have a server:
which is an object inside of that we have
cors: which is an object
and then you have the origin:
and that is going to be http://localhost:7777
actually, where do we have that?
We don't need to manually do that.
We can just say,
process .env.frontend_URL
and what that will allow us to do
is because we are running as backend on a different port
than we're running on the frontend,
we need to be able to allow the data to go
from the backend to the frontend.
This won't be an issue when we actually deploy it
and I'll cover that then,
but for now we need that,
and then we also wanna say credentials: true.
That means that it will pass along that cookie
that we just talked about creating when you create it.
All right, next up we have is the database
and don't worry that this is red
we'll, that will go away once we've inputted
all the data here,
the database adapter is the first one we want
is going to be mongoose.
You see, this is the huge benefit of using TypeScript
and this will often still happen in JavaScript files
but you see how I just typed it adapter?
And it's like, well,
I know the possible properties
for this state database is adapter
or I think there's URL as well.
and like, what is this?
This is just random stuff, it's things you need,
but the blue one is it knows what you want.
So adapter,
and then it knows the possible options are Knex
which they use for postgres or mongoose.
So we're gonna say mongoose
that's what they use under the hood.
and then your URL is going to be our databaseURL
that's the variable that we just created right here, okay?
And then we'll say TODO: ADD data seeding here
we'll go get back to that.
Now, next is the data types.
Keystone refers to our data types as lists,
a list of users, a list of products
list of items, list of orders, things like that.
So we'll say lists: createSchema
and we have an object.
We're gonna leave that empty
but we're gonna say // Schema items go in here.
Then the next one we say UI
do you want people to be able to access this UI?
Because in some applications
you don't want to give access to this.
You want people to manage all of the data
from the actual frontend of their application.
So we are going to, right now we're gonna say true,
but then, when we hit permissions and roles
we'll come back and change that.
So, let's put a little to do in there.
//TODO: change this for roles
let's say, ISACCESSALLOWED:
and we'll say true, okay?
Oh, we're getting a little error here
and it looks like it's expecting a function
that can be run to validate the current session
should have access to.
Okay, so this should be a function.
So let's just make a function that returns true.
Okay, good.
Again, we'll come back to that
and then the last thing we want to do
let's just put //TODO; Add session values here.
So there's a lot in here
that we're gonna come back to do,
but for now let's just get the minimal up and running.
I'm getting some red here
and that is just because
the Keystone package that we're using
hasn't been updated for this just yet.
So it's not expecting a server property with cores on it
but just know that that's okay.
One thing you can do is you can just do little thing
and you say @ts: ignore
and that will just ignore
that coming URL.
Okay, so I don't think that this is gonna work just yet
but let's try it open up your terminal
and we're gonna make sure we are in our backend folder
and we run npm run dev,
that's going to in turn run the Keystone command
and it says dev server running on localhost:3000.
Okay, good.
Keystone is loading.
Ready, boom.
There it is.
There's nothing here,
there's, you can't even log in
because we haven't even made concept of a user yet
but that's just to show that our config
has not yet been broken.
So the next thing that we need to do
is to create our actual users
so we can sign into this thing.
Now let's go ahead and do that in the next video.